Write a blog on the difference between Document and Window Objects.

Document Object:

1. When a web page is loaded, the browser creates a Document Object Model of the page. 

2. The document object represents the whole html document as a tree of Objects
(HTML, HEAD, BODY, and other HTML tags). It is the root element that represents the html document.
3. Each HTML document that gets loaded into a window becomes a document object. 

4. The document contains the contents of the page. Using document object, JavaScript can modify, 
add and delete the HTML elements, attributes CSS styles in the page
document.open() creates a blank document within the window.

5. The Document Object Model (DOM) is the data representation of the objects that comprise the 
structure and content of a document on the web. This guide will introduce the DOM, look at how 
the DOM represents an HTML document in memory and how to use APIs to create web content and applications.

6. The Document Object Model (DOM) is a programming interface for web documents. 
It represents the page so that programs can change the document structure, style, and content. 
The DOM represents the document as nodes and objects; that way, programming languages can interact 
with the page.

7. A web page is a document that can be either displayed in the browser window or as the HTML source. 
In both cases, it is the same document but the Document Object Model (DOM) representation allows it 
to be manipulated. As an object-oriented representation of the web page, it can be modified with a 
scripting language such as JavaScript.

8. window.document returns a reference to the document contained in the window.

9. The Document object is the HTML document that appears in the browser window and serves as an 
interface for interacting with the web page’s content. The browser generates a Document Object Model 
of a web page upon loading it.

10. The DOM is a logical tree in a document, with methods allowing programmatic access to change its 
structure, style, or content.

Document Properties:
element.innerHTML = new html content//Change the inner HTML of an element
element.attribute = new value//Change the attribute value of an HTML element

Document Methods:
document.createElement(element//Create an HTML element
document.removeChild(element)//Remove an HTML element

Window Object:
1. The Browser Object Model contains objects that represent the current browser window or tab. 

2. The topmost object in the BOM is the window object representing the window or tab or an iframe sometimes. 

3. Window object has properties like browser history, location and the device’s screen etc. In case of multi 
tab browser, a window object represents a single tab, but some of its properties like innerHeight, 
innerWidth and methods like resizeTo() will affect the whole browser window.

4. It is the top most object and outermost element of the object hierarchy.

5. The window object represents a window/tab containing a DOM document where as document object 
is property of window object that points to the DOM document loaded in that window.

6. window.open() opens a new tab or window.

7. The Window interface represents a window containing a DOM document; the document property points to 
the DOM document loaded in that window.

8. A window for a given document can be obtained using the document.defaultView property.

10. A global variable, window, representing the window in which the script is running, is exposed to 
JavaScript code.

11. The Window interface is home to a variety of functions, namespaces, objects, and constructors which 
are not necessarily directly associated with the concept of a user interface window. However, 
the Window interface is a suitable place to include these items that need to be globally available. 
Many of these are documented in the JavaScript Reference and the DOM Reference.

12. The window object represents a window in browser. An object of window is created automatically 
by the browser.

13. Window is the object of browser, it is not the object of javascript. The javascript objects are string, 
array, date etc.

Window Properties:
window.innerHeight - the inner height of the browser window (in pixels)
window.innerWidth - the inner width of the browser window (in pixels)

Window Methods:
window.open() - open a new window
window.close() - close the current window
window.moveTo() - move the current window
window.resizeTo() - resize the current window
